# Predicting Symboling and Normalized Losses of Automobile
This was an exploratory project to get acquainted with quadratic and linear discriminant analysis as classification algorithms. 
Using this [chocolate ratings dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rtatman/chocolate-bar-ratings), I attempted to answer the question:  Given a chocolate's cocoa percentage and expert taste rating, can we tell what type of cocoa bean was used?

Insurance companies ensure profitability through analyzing risks and calculating the likelihood and cost of potential claims. If the calculation was done incorrectly and the premiums were set too high, customers will turn to competitors. On the other hand, if the premiums were set too low to cover the expense, insurance companies might go bankrupt. In the case of car insurance, companies can refer to previous contract premiums when deciding on the price of a new contract of vehicles with similar characteristics. For instance, the insurance company can set the premiums for a 2020 Toyota Corolla based on their contract history with Toyota Corolla models. However, there are models launching every year and many models are completely new to the market. When Tesla launched Model S in 2012, there were few electric cars in the market. How should insurance companies set the premiums for a newly launched automobile when there are no predecessors to refer to?

To answer this question, we first need to know how insurance companies determine premiums. In general, car insurance companies take various factors into consideration, including driver’s history, vehicle-specific factors, coverage levels, and so on. Based on these factors, insurance companies can get a base price for the car insurance. However, in real-life situations, some automobiles might be more risky than others. To address this issue, insurance companies use symboling and normalized losses to evaluate risk and adjust the premiums accordingly. In this project, I will focus on the premium adjustment process. I will take the 2012 Tesla Model S as an example and apply tree-based algorithms to predict its symboling and normalized losses.

The automobile dataset comes from Kaggle [Automobile Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/toramky/automobile-dataset/data) and consists of three types of entities: (a) the specification of an automobile in terms of various characteristics, including make, number of doors, price, etc., (b) its symboling (an assigned insurance risk rating), and (c) its normalized losses in use as compared to other cars. I will refine the dataset through data preprocessing and feature engineering to retain the most influential predictors. This process ensures the creation of models with high performance. The goal of this project is to help car insurance companies make informed decisions when setting premiums for newly launched automobiles.
